Hello and welcome back to the course on block chain.
And today we're going to talk about the difference between a public key and a bitcoin address.
And the reason for this tutorial is because a lot of the time people use these terms interchangeably
and in are used as well.
But when I dug a little bit deeper I found that these are actually slightly different things and I think
a good thing to know what how they're different and why they're there is a reason what the reason is
for them to be different.
All right so let's have a look.
So here's our diagrams up to now.
We've got a private key which is the public key the private key is used to create the message and and
then give the message recreate the signature and then the public key message and signature all go into
the verification function to get a yes no answer.
And so what is a bitcoin address.
Well let's restructure this diagram or move this diagram a lil bit to the left.
So that same diagram just moves to the left so that we have some space on the right.
And what a bitcoin address is.
It's a it is derived from the public key and is derived by just apply simply applying the charge on
or if it just is.
Hash function as we know the hash function is deterministic.
There's a very low chance of any kind of collisions.
So it's pretty much like if you have the public key you will always get.
You will definitely always get the same address from a public key but because the collisions are so
rare and so unlikely it's very unlikely that you will get a you know two different public keys will
generate the same address very very very unlikely.
And so therefore again as old as as many times in this course we are leveraging the shutter on a five
to six function here.
And so what is the address for the address is where you can ask people to send you money as just with
the public key.
It's something that you don't have to keep private.
So the private key you definitely don't want to ever share anyway.
That's something that is completely yours as soon as somebody knows your priority they can take away
everything all the money that you have all the because a job as of that has to be kept safe whereas
public key is not the same thing.
It doesn't have to be kept safe and the address doesn't have to be kept safe.
All that in fact that's what you need to tell people for them to send your money.
The interesting thing is that people can also send you bitcoin straight to your public key as well.
So you can give them either in the public key or the dress.
The Wards will handle it either way they can send you money one way or the other.
But why.
So what was the point of the address.
The reason is we want to actually try and keep the public key also safe or not.
Exactly private and protected all the time.
We want to keep the public key.
We don't we don't want to expose it too often.
We definitely will have to expose the public key when we send money to someone when we send Bitcoin
to someone else because the public key they cannot run the verification function they cannot not confirm
that the transaction is valid.
So you will have to expose the public key when you send money.
But if we can avoid exposing it when we receive money we should do that.
And that's always the address.
And so the question is Why should we avoid exposing the public key when we can.
Well the reason for that is what we hear is in this link between the private and the public.
So as we know as we've discussed there's no way to generate to identify what the private key is or find
out the private key knowing the public key.
And that's like a huge foundational layer of or underpinning concepts of all this.
And why is that.
Well because the way it's generated is through an elliptic function.
Now we're all going to go into elliptic functions here.
It's a very technical topic.
It's kind of like digging into the nitty gritty the how the shot 256 works.
It's not a hash functions and elliptic function but that's how they connect some from a private key
elliptical function gives you the public.
And the reason for this additional protection that we're trying to create here.
We're using the Shudra 56 function is because if at some point this is somehow reverse engineered if
there is like a flaw in the elliptic function that is uncovered or something else and that eventually
one day somehow somebody finds a way to go from public to private key Well if you are giving everybody
a public key for all your transactions then it was very quickly somebody can get your private key.
But if you're protecting an additional layer of protection which is the short term and 56 of the hashing
algorithm then even if this happens if somebody somehow reverse engineer this then you will have that
additional layer of protection because people want to have your address.
They won't have they won't be able to get to the public that quickly unless you know unless you've sent
them money.
But if they've been sending you money they won't be able to get to it because there's this layer of
protection and therefore it will say you'll take some time for the Bitcoin community to fix this problem
fix this bug and replace the elliptic function or fix how it's calculated so fix this problem that there's
clearly there is a vulnerability here.
So it'll take some some time to fix that vulnerability and you want to be protected as much as you can
Jurich the duration of that vulnerability.
So there we go.
That's the reason why we use addresses rather than public keys.
That's why we plan additional hash or additional shut 256 or public key to get the address.
This is how it all works.
And to finish off let's have a look at what we need to do of the address where somebody said money so
how does this how does this actually happen.
This part here.
Well let's duplicate.
This is our diagram I've put in like sample dummy keys in there and here's another diagram another person
so let's say that's me Carol that's Adlon and if one wants to send me money I have to give him my address
and he will put it in to the transaction.
So this message here is actually that's how when we are actually transacting each other rather than
just encrypting messages.
That's where the transaction actually goes.
And then this transaction once told encrypted like that it will go to the you'll go to the block chain.
So you go into a block along with this public key that he has.
So together they all go into a block and then anybody can.
And the signature of the transaction the signature and the and the public key will go into a block and
then anybody can go ahead and verify or the notes can verify that it is about election.
So that's how it happens.
Basically I need to give them that address and he will include it in the transaction.
So there we go.
That's how what the difference is between an address and a public key.
And if you'd like to learn a bit more where I learned about this stuff is a subset it is like a it's
like a saw like like I don't use read it that much.
It's like the response on Reddit to a question what's the difference between the public and public address.
Very very detailed response by H.K. support link has always will be in the notes for the course.
If you would like to have a look and find out a bit more detail on that.
And on that topic injury to Tauriel Accorsi and XM.
And until then enjoy good chance.